Entry for CPP Math Function ` atan2()` (#1257)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/atan2/atan2.md

---
Title: 'atan2()'
Description: 'Returns the inverse tangent of coordinates in radians.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`atan2()`** function returns the inverse tangent of a coordinate (y/x), where y is the y-coordinate value and x is the x-coordinate value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`atan2()`** function returns the inverse tangent of the quotient of a pair of coordinates (y/x), in radians.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
atan2(y, x)
```

> The `y`, `x` parameter can be one of `double`, `float` or `long double` datatype.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first and second parameters, `y` and `x`, can be one of `double`, `float` or `long double` [data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/data-types).
```

Reviewer: Can we also include 1-3 sentences about how the `atan2()` function behaves when either parameter is negative, or if both parameters are equal to zero (0)?

## Example

The following is an example of the `.atan2()` method:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main() {
>     // Declaration of the two parameters
>     double x = 10.0, y = 20.0;
> 
>     // Output
>     std :: cout << atan2(y, x) << std :: endl;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  double x = 10.0, y = 20.0;
  
  std::cout << atan2(y, x) << std::endl;
}
```

---
Title: 'atan2()'
Description: 'Returns the inverse tangent of coordinates in radians.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`atan2()`** function returns the inverse tangent of a coordinate (y/x), where y is the y-coordinate value and x is the x-coordinate value.

## Syntax

```pseudo
atan2(y, x)
```

> The `y`, `x` parameter can be one of the following [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/data-types)

Reviewer 2: This needs to mention the data types.

Reviewer 2: @shlok-2003 You should list what data types x and y can be. It says "the following data types" but does not list the data types following the sentence.

Author: I have added the data type list in the file

## Example

The following is an example of the `.atan2()` method:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
    // Declaration of the two parameters
    double x = 10.0, y = 20.0;

    // Output
    std :: cout << atan2(y, x) << std :: endl;

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     1.10715

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
Title: 'atan2()'
Description: 'Returns the inverse tangent of a pair of x- and y-coordinates in radians.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`atan2()`** function returns the inverse tangent of the quotient of a pair of coordinates (y/x), in radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`atan2()`** function returns the inverse tangent of the quotient of a coordinate pair (y/x), in radians.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
atan2(y, x)
```

> - The first and second parameters, `y` and `x`, can be one of `double`, `float` or `long double` [data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/data-types).
> - The return value has the range of [-π, π].
> - The function returns negative value when first parameter is negative.
> - If both the parameters are 0, then the value is 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/data-types) of the `y` and `x` parameters can be `double`, `float` or `long double`.

- The return value has the range of [-π, π].
- A negative value is returned if the first parameter is negative.
- If both parameters are 0, then the value is 0.
```

## Example

The following is an example of the `.atan2()` method:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  double x = 10.0, y = 20.0;

  std :: cout << atan2(y, x) << std :: endl;
  return 0;
}
```

This will produce the following output:

```shell
1.10715
```

## Codebyte Example

The following example is runnable and demonstrates `.atan2()` function:

```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>
int main()
{
  double x, y;
  cin >> x >> y;

  std :: cout << atan2(y, x) << std :: endl;

>   return 0;

Reviewer: We need to rewrite this example and omit `cin`. Unfortunately, input/output function don't work properly in Codebytes.

Maybe this example could feature one of the edge cases mentioned in the "Syntax" section?

Author: Hey @Dusch4593, I am mentioning the case where both the coordinates are zero.
